A team in tactical gear approached a home in Janesville, Wis., last week as part of a 10-day manhunt for Joseph A. Jakubowski. Mr. Jakubowski was captured Friday morning in Rock County. Credit Angela Major/The Janesville Gazette, via Associated Press
A man suspected of stealing firearms, threatening churches, setting his vehicle on fire and writing a 161-page antigovernment manifesto to President Trump has been captured in Wisconsin after a 10-day manhunt.

The sheriff’s office of Rock County, Wis., said that Joseph A. Jakubowski, 32, was arrested early Friday morning.

Sheriff Robert Spoden of Rock County said Mr. Jakubowski had been camping near the border separating Vernon and Richland Counties.

“He appeared to be very disheveled and dirty and obviously had been outdoors for some time,” Sheriff Spoden said in a phone interview, adding that no one was hurt during the arrest.

Mr. Jakubowski is suspected of robbing a gun shop on April 4 in Janesville, Wis. A video recorded by Mr. Jakubowski and released by the police shows him preparing to mail a manifesto to the White House. In the video, he calls for revolution, saying, “It’s time for change.”

According to the police, Mr. Jakubowski’s document “includes grievances against government and personal angst towards anyone or anything other than natural law or rule.”

The police found Mr. Jakubowski after receiving reports of a suspicious person on a farmer’s property on Thursday night. A news release from the Rock County sheriff’s office said that around 6 a.m. Friday, “tactical officers made contact with the suspicious person at the campsite. The subject was taken into custody without incident and positively identified.”

At a news conference on Friday afternoon, R. Justin Tolomeo, who leads the F.B.I.’s Milwaukee Division, said Mr. Jakubowski was found with four handguns, one long gun, multiple boxes of ammunition, some containers of flammable liquid, a sword, a helmet, a ballistic vest and a copy of his own manifesto.

Mr. Tolomeo acknowledged that this did not account for all of the weapons reported missing from the Janesville gun shop that Mr. Jakubowski is accused of robbing, which totaled 18 firearms, including an M-16 rifle, and two gun silencers, according to court documents. The authorities continued to search for the remaining weapons.

After being held briefly in Vernon County, Mr. Jakubowski was sent to Madison, Wis., for a court appearance on Friday afternoon, Sheriff Spoden said.

Mr. Jakubowski faces state charges of burglary and arming himself with a dangerous weapon, felony theft, and possession of burglary tools. “There are currently federal firearms charges, which the A.T.F. are pursing,” Mr. Tolomeo said, referring to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. He added that additional federal charges may be forthcoming “as the investigation unfolds.”

Mr. Jakubowski had also been suspected of writing letters threatening violence against churches on Easter around Sussex, Wis., in the eastern part of the state. But Lt. Philip Carini of the Waukesha County sheriff’s office said the letters’ origins had not been not verified, and Mr. Tolomeo said at the news conference that the letters were “likely not” sent by Mr. Jakubowski.

The search for Mr. Jakubowski involved 18 local agencies, two state agencies and six federal agencies.

“We could not have asked for this matter to end better,” said David Moore, the chief of the Janesville Police Department. “No one was hurt, no officers were harmed, and Mr. Jakubowski was taken into custody without any injuries.”

